All right, we kind of touched
a little bit on this but
think about the candidate experience.
Says a lot about your company and
you as a manager, your team,
the candidate should
absolutely be evaluating you.
There's a lot of jobs out there,
why do they wanna come work with you?
And oftentimes, I actually like
when I'm interviewing someone and
they have five other opportunities
that they're interviewing for.
The way I think about it is, I don't
need to try and overly prescriptively
convince them that my team is the best
one and you need to come to there.
It's I want them to opt
into what's best for them.
And if it is us, that's great.
It's gonna be more successful and so
I wanna provide a great candidate
experience, I wanna be transparent.
Responding in a timely fashion.
I gotta admit,
I feel this one I'm probably not the best
at I think every one of us isn't.
Because when you're the candidate and
you're interviewing somewhere,
you wanna hear back as soon as possible.
But there's things internally
that are slowing you down.
That person's not the most
top of mind thing.
You are trying to hire but
you still have your team,
you still have project meetings,
there's still work going on or
you are waiting on feedback
from other people who are busy.
So you wanna think about this is,
how can I be responding?
And maybe it is,
I'm still waiting on some feedback,
I was hoping to come back to you sooner,
haven't forgotten about you but
staying in communication
with people goes a long way.
Let candidates know who they're meeting,
right?
Who are they meeting?
They can look them up on LinkedIn,
that's awesome.
Actually, even on my job
descriptions I've often put,
who are some of the team members?
You kinda good to know that,
it's nice to kind of be
transparent get some of those
insights into people ahead of time.
You are prepared,
I'm meeting with the VP of engineering,
all right,
what's the conversation gonna look like?
That's a little bit different
than someone who's on the team,
what types of questions should I ask them?
That's really nice to help a candidate.
Be very explicit, clear,
set clear timelines and expectations.
We talked a little bit about that even
just in doing a technical exercise.
Do you have to have it completely
polished, could it be pseudocode?
Does it have to be fully working,
what are you looking,
what are you evaluating for,
does it have to have tests, right?
Yeah, call it out, just be clear on that.
And it really helps people show their best
work and sometimes it may not meet the bar
and that's okay but at least you're
setting them up for success.
Let candidates know
what you're evaluating.
You don't have to be really
specific on this, but yeah, you're,
I want you to be able to communicate
your skills in this way.
Or I'm gonna be evaluating how you
partner with the rest of the team or
how you collaborate, that's an important
skill set that we need on this team.
And so we will be evaluating that.
Even when I'm interviewing for
other teams, I called out the partnership
example cuz I feel that's what I'm always
thrown on as a partner of other teams.
And I start my interviews of going,
I'm evaluating for partnerships.
We're gonna be talking about how you
collaborate with a team like mine and
how you think about that,
and I'm just explaining what I'm
even gonna be asking questions on.
I also even say leaving time for
questions, right?
When you're interviewing people, we've all
been there, we're we have one minute left,
what kind of questions do you have for me?
>> That's not a great
candidate experience.
So I've oftentimes called it out at
the start where I'm we're gonna talk for
about 30 minutes and
then I'm gonna watch time,
the last 10,
15 minutes you can ask me questions.
Sometimes it's not perfect but
I like to try and hit the ten mark and
I will stop my questions if I have
to just to give people that time.
I also evaluate the questions
that I'm asked.
So I think it is a valuable thing and
it's helpful for the candidate.
I think we just came up a little bit
earlier, but provide options for
the technical exercise.
People prefer certain things,
don't throw them off their game,
live coding it can be a daunting thing.
Not everyone's all for it.
How many times do you live code and
your work today as an engineer,
you're not doing that.
So you're already in a bit
different environment interviewing.
So what can you do to just try and
help people really be able to
show up as their best self?
Close out with candidates.
I know sometimes this can be hard.
If they've interviewed with you,
please, please close out with them.
If they've applied, not all companies
obviously can get back to everyone just
because you applied
that you weren't a fit.
Some companies are good about it,
some are not.
But I definitely think if they've
spent the time talking with you and
you're not wanting to move forward,
close out with them.
And then this one for
some reason is a little bit of
a spicy topic is providing feedback.
Some companies say that they
legally don't wanna do that and
that it can get them in trouble, I've
heard all sorts of stories around that.
But I think it's so
important to provide a candidate feedback,
what could they have done better?
What were you looking for
that they maybe just didn't do great on?
I see this because they've spent time
to interview with you and your company,
feedback as a gift.
It helps people get better.
And not only that, I think it's
helpful for you and your company,
is I've seen this at Netflix, where I've
interviewed someone, they were good,
maybe just not the right time.
They needed to grow in some areas.
I gave them feedback, a year or
two later, they come back to me.
I have an open role and
they want to interview again.
That's awesome, they've gotten
some feedback to work on that.
And those candidates that I've talked to,
I'm cool, I look at my notes,
I'm I gave you feedback that
you need to do x, y, and z.
What's changed,
how have you grown in that area?
So it's helpful for me too, but
it's also helpful for that candidate.
All right, kind of the recap of different
things that I think about building
a candidate experience.
I'm curious on the audience, what
are things that you would like to see or
would make, maybe it's things you've
experienced where a company's
done something for you that you're, wow,
that was awesome, a great experience.
What are things that could be better?
I don't think I covered them all so.
>> The timely feedback is one that
a lot of people miss, I miss on it too.
It's so hard to there's so
many other things going on as an
engineering manager that you just forget.
So it's really you have to have a lot
of empathy and being, they don't know
everything that's going on, the processes,
you may have paperwork going.
>> Yep.
>> So really have to put in
a lot of effort to do that.
The feedback one, I do it.
But it takes so
much time to write feedback for
people because earlier my career
when I was hiring I didn't filter
the feedback from the team
even on technical stuff.
And it's copy paste it.
And then it ended up a long
argument with someone.
>> Yep.
>> I did this, and this and this.
So lesson learned there was just,
I have to filter the feedback and be,
what's the overall themes?
I don't copy paste specific things that
people said cuz they can take the wrong
way cuz they don't know me or the team.
But that takes time.
>> Yep.
I tried to give it back but I understand
why companies are hesitant to provide
feedback cuz some people are just
gonna argue with you and you're,
look, I'm trying to help you.
It's already a no, so you're not
gonna argue your way back in but.
>> [LAUGH]
>> It's such a balance.
Yeah, people are tricky bit to deal with,
especially during interviews.
>> I like that you called that out.
And I'm granted, I've definitely made
similar mistakes where I've shared
the feedback, and it hasn't landed well.
And I've gotten better
at how I share that.
But also, I think feedback is important.
Definitely is an important factor
is to be able to give feedback but
also you want people to be
able to receive feedback.
We're all growing, we're all learning.
That's an important factor and so Gem in
that case where someone's arguing with you
or dismissive or those types of things,
it's pretty telling.
I'm yeah, this now the true
colors to come out and so
maybe I don't revisit that
candidate two years from now or
a year or whatever,
because that's an important skill set.
And, or maybe I still revisit, but
I'm gonna be bringing that up as,
you weren't great at being
able to receive feedback.
It wasn't a productive conversation.
>> And people forget we have candidate
tracking systems where we keep records of
these things.
>> Yeah.
>> So we look it up later,
and I think people don't remember that.
We keep a very long record of what
people said and how they acted and
if they didn't get the job,
it pops up later and we're, no.
Cuz I see what Ryan wrote
about them three years ago.
And I can see if that changed, but
some things just really hard to
get past if they haven't evolved.
>> Yeah, I think there's a hand here.
>> Yeah, I was just gonna mention,
when you were talking about setting clear
timelines, specifically during interview,
let's say we've got a phone call
that's scheduled for 60 or
90 minutes or whatever.
I always ask if they have a hard stop or
be clear that I have a hard
stop if I do because sometimes
the conversation is really, really great.
And we're both asking
great follow up questions,
probing questions,
learning more about one another.
So it's nice to know if you got an extra
five, eight minutes to bleed over.
>> I like that, yeah, just even calling
that upfront and asking that question.
Another thing sometimes too is
oftentimes we'll do this on,
especially the early phone calls or
things that maybe it's a little different
now when it's a scheduled Zoom call.
It feels a little different but
I'd often say, is now still a good time?
>> Yep.
>> Maybe something happened
that they're actually, no.
[LAUGH] I had this on my calendar and
didn't wanna decline or not show up.
But it's, yeah maybe they're not in the
right headspace for some reason then that
might be a good thing which I can-
>> My dog just puked on the rug and
now I need to, sorry,
can I call you back in 10 minutes
>> Yeah and that you're gonna be,
well actually that might not work for
me but
let's reschedule and
things that are really helpful.
It's those little things that can
go a long way, I think, Jeff.
>> I mean it kind of but it was more so,
I mean I had an interview where
we had technical difficulties and
it ended up just working out where we
both were allowed to or had time after.
So, instead of rescheduling,
we just did it and we just went along.
>> Yep.
>> And I think in both cases, all a lot of
these, it's just communicating clearly and
not holding that against someone and then-
>> Sure.
>> Transparency.
>> Transparency, yeah.
>> Transparency is huge, yeah.
All right, my favorite thing, networking.
You should always be networking, and
this is so easy to forget, but yeah,
you're hiring, right?
You're manager, you're gonna be
hiring at some point in time.
And you may not have an open
role on your team, that's okay.
Talk with people, and it's easy.
I think Mark's question from
someone on the chat is,
how much time should you be doing?
This is hard, I have many other
things I should be doing.
This is not a priority
if I don't have a role.
But I wanna be doing something and
building those connections.